ctdlsalearn is a program that scans a specified set of "spam" and "ham"
folders (rooms), and batch-submits their contents to the "sa-learn" program
in order to train its Bayesian filters.

This is a work in progress.  It isn't finished.  You are only permitted to
use this program if you promise not to whine about it if it doesn't work.

I mean it!  If you complain in the Citadel Support forum that ctdlsalearn
isn't working, I will hunt you down and jam ice picks into your eye sockets
and smash your kneecaps with a ball pean hammer.   THIS IS UNSUPPORTED.

Still with us?  Ok, here's how to make it work.

* Your Citadel server needs to be version 7.63 or newer.  That's where we
  we fixed a bug that prevents internal programs from deleting messages.
  Without this fix, messages won't get deleted from your spam and ham folers,
  and they'll just pile up forever and get resubmitted to sa-learn on every
  run.  Don't let this happen to you.

* Back up your data.  I may have hidden an "rm -fr /" in here somewhere
  just to mess with your head, and I'm brutally unforgiving of people who
  don't take backups.

* Open up src/main.c with your favorite text editor (which ought to
  be vi, not emacs).  Yes, you're editing the source code to configure
  the program.  Like I said, it's a work in progress.  I haven't written
  a configuration tool yet.  If this is a problem for you, please either
  write the configuration tool, or jump off a cliff; either one will
  solve the problem.

* Look for the references to "ctdldir".  Is one of the paths we're trying
  a valid location for your Citadel installation?  If not, add yours.

* Now look for the calls to do_room().  This is where you can specify the
  locations of ham and spam folders.  The SpamAssassin folks tell us that
  you need both in order for Bayesian filtering to work well.  ctdlsalearn
  will attempt to *delete* messages from these folders after submitting
  them, so don't be a schmuck and point it to your inbox.  Create ham and
  spam folders for this purpose.  Probably you want to copy ham to your
  ham folder, and move spam to your spam folder (unless you have some sick
  fetish for spam and you like to keep it around).  Also note that if you
  specify any rooms that are users' private mailboxes, you'll need to
  prepend the namespace prefix (which is their user number, padded with
  zeroes to ten digits, followed by a dot).
 
  You can specify as many spam and ham folders as you want.  Just keep
  adding more do_room() calls.

* Compile the program and run it.  If it works, great; if not, re-read
  the warning at the top of this document.  Note that you can also use
  the "-v" (verbose) command line option.

