Shaggy: java-powered citadel/ux client
by Will Schenk (chilly@alumni.psu.edu, chilly @ uncnsrd)

Last mod: 27 Jul 1999

This is the java client.  I would like this to be both an application and
an applet.  Mostly this should be straight forward, but with an applet
you're stuck in the "sandbox" so connecting to a different bbs won't work
(unless you set up some sort of ugly proxy) and I'm not sure how downloading
files will work -- there may be an ugly way using Applet.showUrl()
to make it possible.

At the moment, my aim is just use this client to connect, so basically 
that means that I should get the client to do all the stuff that I use 
the bbs for.  'm sure that there are many features that I don't use, and 
so that'll give you an idea of where I'll need input: things like aide 
commands and editing configuration and other stuff I don't use.  :)

I've also run into some issues with non-obvious resolutions in how to
layout the gui and it's behavior.  Ideas are welcome.

I'll try and keep the STATUS file up-to-date with the current niftyness
of the features and lack thereof.

I'm developing with sun's jdk 1.1.7 (linuxppc) but trying to stay with
the 1.0.2 api.  This is for two reasons: 1) I know the 1.0 api well
enough so I don't have to go messing around with the docs to figure out
the calls and 2) if we do want to use this as an applet it will allow
the largest availability of compatable browsers.  (netscape implemented
1.1 in 4.0, but not the new awt event model (I think it wasn't until 4.05).
IE did something similarily goofy.)  Ergo, there will be many complaints
about using a deprecated api when compiling.

- BUILDING
I've including a copy of my "java make script", a perl script called "jmake".
Assuming javac is in your path and nothing funky is going on with your
$CLASSPATH, typing 

./jmake

should compile any java source files that are
newer than the corrosponding class files.  The "main" java file is
"citadel.java", so if you are concerned about anything being out of
whack,

javac -depend citadel.java

will build the main class, and recursively work down all the classes that
it references, so everything needed will be rebuilt.  (Contrast with jmake:
it builds all java classes in the directory, even those just hanging out
there having nothing to do with the citadel client.)

- RUNNING
At the moment there is no applet class, so it only works as an application.
The easiest way to run the client is:

java citadel [host]

where [host] is the optional network address of the server.  host defaults
to 127.0.0.1.  You'll have to change the code in net.java if you want it
to use a different port.

ideally, when it's distributed there should be either a zip or jar file
(both are actually zip files, only difference is the letters) with all the
classes.  This makes the applet load faster, and it's cleaner.

-- will 
